# BashJack
#### made by Brennan Xavier McManus
Hello! If you're reading this, you're probably about to play BashJack, a unix terminal-based card game compiled and run in Java SE 10. I made this for my application to the Kleiner Perkins Software Engineering Fellows program. Enjoy!
#### Rules
This game is based off of Blackjack, but with simpler rules. You play against the house, without competing against other players. Each round, the house deals 2 cards to themself and the player, one face up and one face down. Given the cards you can see (both of yours, and one of his), you try to get the values of your cards to add up to less than or equal to 21, but as close to 21 as possible. Each card has its own value, and you can add as many as possible to try to get to 21. If you go over 21, however, the points you get for that turn go to zero, and you will lose to the house (ties go to the house). This game consists of up to 10 rounds: winning the round gives you, the player a point. While losing gives the house a point. The first to get 5 points (5 total wins) wins the game. The game will then ask if you wish to play again. 
#### Card Values
 The card values are as follows: cards Two through Ten of any suit are worth the number written on them (e.g., an Eight of clubs is worth 8 points). The cards Jack, Queen, and King are each worth 10 points. An Ace is worth either 1 or 11 points, depending on what the person holding the Ace decides its value to be. 
#### Playing The Game
To run BashJack, open a command editor such as terminal, navigate to the directory with BashJack.jar, and run the command `java -jar BashJack.jar` The game will prompt you to make choices by asking yes or no questions, and prompting you to respond by ending the prompt with (y/n). Type y for yes, n for no (or just type yes, yeah yup etc), and press enter for the program to register your input. Enjoy!
#### Notes
This game makes use of the Java.util package's library classes LinkedList, Scanner, and Random. I chose to write in java because as a strictly typed, object oriented programming language that I am most familiar with, it offers exactly the tools I was looking for. Between the encapsulation of the class system (A Player's hand holds Cards drawn() from a Deck ), and the ease of use of Java's enumerations (for Suits and Colors). I implemented the deck as a Stack because, as well as appropriately and easily simulating the behavior of a deck of cards, each operation runs in constant time, lowering this program's already insignificant time complexity. Before picking the game I wanted to make, I designed and wrote the Card, Colors, Suits, and Deck class, to fully encapcuslate the behavior of a (Joker-free) deck of cards, suitable for any simple card game. 